Well let's continue working on the face here.
I'm going to press Shift B and drag select a zoom area and zoom in here and I'm going to go to the sculped
mode and I'll press alt F to center up the tumble around the head there.
And the first thing I want to do I think is work on the Browns just work on how the eyes fit into the
head.
I'm going to press control and lightly sculpt in to build that area around the eye.
I think I need to sculpt out here and I'm just using the clay strips brush right now.
And I'm just trying to work very gently for now and see what I can come up with.
And try and build up the guy around that eyeball.
And I'm trying to keep it pretty rough right now just to try and get a sense of the forms.
I'm still not really seeing in my head exactly what it needs to be.
So I'm kind of I have to do some experimenting here I'm afraid.
But with the eyeball in there I can kind of just build up the forms around it.
I've noticed that my whole head is just a little bit too narrow here.
I switch over to my character images screen layout and see how I'm doing here.
And it looks like I've got some work to do on just the sheer size of the head both at the top and the
sides and even the front I could bring out the front end and maybe I should work on the nose as well.
And I'm just trying to use the clay strips brush to bring the nose out to about where the side view
is here.
Just trying to get a sense of that.
And I should probably while I'm here looking at the side view get some of that brow going here.
So that's a pretty good profile here.
Not too bad.
Let's take a look at the front view now and I'm going to tumble this around and let's see what I can
do here.
I feel like there's more that can be done in here in the jaw area.
And I want to make it too big all right.
Let's see how that looks.
Now back in the default view
right.
Not too bad.
I'm going to build out the forms around the ears just a little bit more around in here.
I feel like the nose is a little big maybe could cut in on the sides here.
And underneath and maybe move the nostrils down just a bit.
All right so now let's start let's come back and start cutting in here and the eyes on the sides so
we can see them from the side view a little bit better.
And one of the things I want to do is get the sense that the eye lids are wrapping around that eyeball.
All right.
So we've got the brownnose kind of roughed in there.
Let's also work on the lips now and once again I've gathered some reference images from online or from
books just to have images of lips in front of me just so I have it it kind of in my head as I do this
or hover over the lips here and press alt F to frame up the tumble around the lips here.
And I'll switch over to my sculpt draw.
And generally speaking the top lip has kind of three forms of one kind of in the center here.
So and then two on either side here and then the bottom lip kind of has two forms down here.
Like so.
So that's generally speaking what I'm going to go for.
So let's give that a try here.
Let me try the inflate brush here.
Everything else doesn't seem to be working as well.
Also maybe I'll grab the crab brush and let's just try and move the mouth out just a little bit.
Maybe move it back just a hair as well.
It kind of wraps around the head a little bit more.
And I could also maybe bring it up a bit.
And also I think I want to put just a little bit of a chin on here.
I think maybe I'll try the sculpt draw see if I can do that.
Just want to put a little bit of a hint of a chin here like that.
And I just want to maybe inflate the various areas like around the mouth here.
Well there's our first go at the actual structure of the face.
His character is beginning to come through.
I think that is of course more to do.
I'm going to want to clean up the ears and do a little more detail work on the face.
But generally speaking I'm trying to get everything on the body up to a certain level of detail.
Right now it's still pretty rough and I want to keep it that way.
Zoom out here.
Even as I begin adding the clothes and accessories he still needs boots and the arm cuffs but so far
I think he's coming together.
I love this part when we're actually beginning to be able to see the character and the personality and
everything.